Statistical
methods are
used in almost every
discipline, including agriculture, astronomy,
biology, business, communications, economics,
        education, electronics, geology, health sciences, and many other fields of science and engineering,
    and can aid us in several ways. Modern applications of statistical techniques include statistical communication theory and
        signal processing, information theory, network security and denial-of-service problems, clinical trials, artificial and biological
intelligence, quality control of manufactured items, software reliability, and survival analysis. The first of these is to
        assist us in designing experiments and surveys. We desire our experiment to yield adequate answers to the questions that
prompted the experiment or survey. We would like the answers to have good precision without involving a lot of
        expenditure. Statistically designed experiments facilitate the development of robust products that are insensitive to changes
in the environment and internal component variation. Another way that statistics assists us is in organizing, describing,
summarizing, and displaying experimental data. This is termed descriptive statistics. Many of the descriptive statistics
methods presented in this chapter are also part of the general area known as exploratory data analysis (EDA). A third use of


statistics is in drawing inferences and making decisions based on data. For example, scientists may collect experimental
data to prove or disprove an intuitive conjecture or hypothesis. Through the proper use of statistics, we can conclude
whether the hypothesis is valid or not. In the process of solving a real-life problem using statistics, the following three basic
steps may be identified. First, consistent with the objective of the problem, we identify the model using the appropriate
statistical method. Then, we justify the applicability of the selected model to fulfill the aim of our problem. Last, we
properly apply the related model to analyze the data and make the necessary decisions, which results in answering the
question of our problem with minimum risk. Starting with Chapter 2, we will study the necessary background material to
proceed with the development of statistical methods for solving real-world problems.
